"believe me, it's not all these everybody. So some of the stuff that I will do will just be, might seem basic, some of what I do. And some of it is broad, lots of the comments for today's class have pretty big important questions about causality, like what actually caused stuff, what kind of regulations we can use. I'm not gonna get into that today because we need to go through a lot of other pieces before that's gonna make sense. And, but I will get to a lot of those things. They need to be a little more about mechanics with some opening stuff. So take a look at Charlie's question. Charlie, are you here? Yeah. That's you, you're right there, all right. All right, everybody read with Charlie at this end. Okay, so there was a great discussion on campus around this point. So Charlie kicked it off with this question about, how much was this kind of a policy set of decisions in the United States that were encouraging homeownership? And a lot of people added to that and showed the evidence that this is not just, this is a bipartisan thing in the United States and it's been around for a long time. So this specific theme points out stuff that George Bush did more proxibly, the Bush administration did more proxibly to when this might happen. But this is just the last in a long line of things, Democrats, Republicans, everybody, kind of pushes the American dream. And we have a variety of policies that are in place. Everything from home mortgage interest discussions, which you can get, all of the things that we do with the GSEs, tons of policies that are local that encourage more, lots of stuff to tell them. And it did open kick up a little bit in aggression in the five years before the crisis. You can see a take off in the homeownership that went from about 66% to close to 70% in the United States, a few hundred percentage points, but we were already way ahead of a lot of other countries in terms of homeownership, other local agencies. Right, but it's a fair question to ask, are we, what's going on here with housing policy and how much can you blame pushing a housing policy? How much can be blamed on that or the ultimate bubble that we have? So this is one of those setting the table things that I wanna do is just talk a bit that this isn't something struck at length in the Coursera module. Talk a bit about why government might wanna be involved in this at all. What's the logic behind government being involved now? So let's do two main things. The first one is that all of the theorems that we have about how markets work best when government stays out. Those are real theorems. They only apply when the markets satisfy a bunch of pre-strict conditions. So for example, credit markets, if you wanted to make the argument, like let's go to an extreme pre-market argument, government should see the heck out of this and let the markets work for it. Credit markets are very impervious in general."

"So if it were the case that you could graduate from school and then go and meet a banker or type a bunch of things online and have it scan your irises and it would immediately know what your income is going forward in all likelihood and could lend to you based on that income and whatever house that you get so that you could consume a house that you own and live in and control over the next 30 years perfectly with no enormous cost for getting that done. And that would be great. Then government wouldn't add a markets or malfunctions reason to it, but that's not how credit markets work. And if you, one of the reasons the United States has a very high homeownership rate is that a long time ago, government realized credit markets aren't working perfectly particularly for, you know, if you're wealthy and you don't eat tomorrow and you think great or if you have tons of other collateral, great. But if you're, if you are just a normal working class person, how are you supposed to get a mortgage? If the mortgages are really short, like three years, why does this part feel hard to pay that back if we were a bunch? You're gonna live in this thing for a very long time. So is there some sort of financial innovation that we need to do that? The United States has gone on to that pretty early as a credit market imperfection. And they said, you know, government should have some role in trying to fix that credit market imperfection. Now that is correct. I think that is a correct statement. Whether or not the specific policies that we use to fix that are optimal, that's a separate question. But the overall issue of, is there a role for government in housing? I think that there's absolutely a value that people would like to own, for a variety of reasons they would like to own. Just the individual people. And credit markets, if they could do it, would probably allow that to happen. But it's expensive to try to figure out whether someone can pay you back. And it's expensive to make sure that the collateral is right and all of that stuff. So it makes some sense for government to evolve. So first answer, not saying whether any of this is the specific policy that we do, that we use for this, our rights, but just whether or not government should be involved is this credit market imperfection. So that's number one. Number two though, even if there were no credit market imperfection, you could make an argument that would say that the government should be supportive of more homeownership than even perhaps individuals might wanna have on their own. And that argument really is that the other standard argument for government getting involved. One is very specifically imperfection in the markets themselves. And then the second is even though all the markets seem kind of fine, if there's some missing markets and then expertalities, that is an issue. So why would expertalities matter here? Just ask yourself in general, in general, not for someone who you don't want living near you, but in general, would you rather that your next door neighbor who is living there own their house or rent it? Okay, just have a choice. You're gonna live in a house and you have two neighbors on each side, you want the owner renting."

"Generally, people who own and who are living there are gonna care a little bit more about the long run of the neighbor. And if they're gonna care a little bit more, say if things are happening in the neighborhood, they're gonna wanna push against that. So I benefit when my neighbors care more and they'll care more when they own rather than rent it, when they have a long term commitment, whatever it is. Now, you can say, well, what if I don't like my neighbor? Yeah, of course, that's true. In general, you would rather that your neighbors own. So there is something, there is a pure externality there. I don't have a great way to fix that through market. Governments might wanna encourage home ownership. It doesn't just go in one direction. There is a cost. People making the decision about whether they wanna buy or rent are making a pretty complicated decision, assuming they could do either. What drives you to do one or the other often has to do with how long you expect to be in your residence in Korean, which is similar to, but not exactly the same of, as how flexible do you need to be able to move? So if your life and career trajectory and family trajectory is such that you're not really sure in a couple of years how big of a place you might be or what part of the country you might wanna live in, then you'd rather not have big transactions costs for moving, okay? And if you own, your transactions costs will be bigger than if you rent. So even if you could buy or rent, even for people who have $10 million in the bank, they may choose, you know, what do I want those transactions costs for? I'm just gonna rent it because I don't know how long I'll be here, okay? If the government pushes more people to own, then you might actually get a little less labor force flexibility than you wanna have in your country. So it's not purely just in one way, in one direction that the ex-reality might work. But in general, countries and localities feel we'd rather have more orders, okay? There's a third reason that folks are out there which you hear people write a lie, which doesn't necessarily make sense immediately, but their empirical research does support it, which is just that, and this is the behavior like what we're doing. It's very hard, people don't save enough, right? A lot of folks end up when they've retired not having saved enough. And something about the contract that you get when you buy a house really forces people to save. So you borrow a whole lot and then you're paying that down and then you're discovering where you just paid off, you own this car. It's a little bit of force savings. Now that's weird, so a free market person would say, all right, well, they could've saved anyway. You're just kinda forcing them to save. So what's the point of that? And that would be true, the way for where they think that everybody always made the right decisions all the time. Turns out though that this happens to be a contract which seems to nudge people towards saving more. So when you kind of read, for example, the fact that different, if only wealthy people own houses and everybody else rents, they're like, well, why necessarily should that make a difference?"

"Well, in some sense, the people who aren't able to afford the house don't get the benefit of this behavioral intervention which helps them to save more. This is like a third category. That doesn't sound good. I don't think we're about to have a live chat. May I have your attention, please? May I have personal information? There has been a fire emergency reported in the domain. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I've done a lot of my stuff like, um, not being taught, you know, like, are you scared of me? Um Yeah. Alright, fingers crossed."